---
title: "Empirical Security & Privacy, for Humans"
subtitle: "CIS 7000, Fall 2025"
excerpt: "This seminar course explores how to assess the technology and practices that aim to enhance computer security and privacy. A key theme is understanding how to measure whether security and privacy goals have been achieved. We read and discuss papers from the research literature, learn about promising measurement and data analysis techniques, and surface gaps to find opportunities to do better."
date: 2025-08-01
author: "Mike Hicks"
draft: false
show_post_thumbnail: true
show_author_byline: true
show_post_date: true
categories:
  - Security
  - Research
links:
- icon: door-open
  icon_pack: fas
  name: Canvas
  url: https://canvas.upenn.edu/courses/1880676
---

## People, Places, Times

**Class time & place**: [UPenn CIS 7000-010, Fall 2025](https://courses.upenn.edu/?details&srcdb=202530&crn=87502)
Tuesday and Thursday, 10:15 - 11:45am
216B Amy Guttman Hall

**Instructor**: [Michael Hicks](https://mhicks.me)
- Office hours: By appointment
- 321 Amy Guttman Hall

## About

Since the development of time-sharing computer systems 50+ years ago, computer scientists have been working on how to secure them. Today, the computer security industry is massive. Participants across government, academia, and industry are making significant investments and producing impressive technology. Given all this, are computer systems actually getting more secure? How would we know? What research and other work is being done to both understand and address the situation?

This is a seminar course that aims to address these questions. Our main activity will be to read and discuss papers from the research literature, as well as blog posts, whitepapers, and the occasional textbook chapter. Students will be expected to read 1-2 papers per class and to submit a short review on each paper prior to class, to set the table for discussion.

Students will also have the opportunity to present papers to the class (how many depends in part on the class size), and receive feedback. We will also have guest lectures from experts in the field. The culmination of the course's work will be a deep-dive, final project.

## Textbooks

There are no required texts. See the [schedule](../cis-7000-fall2025-content/schedule) for papers and handouts.

## Course Information

- [Syllabus](../cis-7000-fall2025-content/syllabus) - Course description, grading, policies
- [Schedule](../cis-7000-fall2025-content/schedule) - Topics, readings, and assignments
- [Resources](../cis-7000-fall2025-content/resources) - Additional materials and references
